_pages/about.md, before:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Lab Group Photo
======
![Photo](../files/实验室合照.jpg)


About BDAL-RUC
======
<p style="text-align: justify;">
Hi! I’m Cheng Meng, currently a tenure-track Assistant Professor and Ph.D. advisor at the School of Statistics and Data Science, Renmin University of China (RUC). My research interests include Big Data Statistics, Optimal Transport, Artificial Intelligence, and Industrial Statistics, among others. I received my B.S. in Mathematics from Tsinghua University in 2015 and my Ph.D. in Statistics from the University of Georgia (UGA) in 2020. I was fortunate to be advised by a wonderful academic couple, Prof. Ping Ma and Prof. Wenxuan Zhong, who co-direct the Big Data Analytics Lab (BDAL) at UGA.
</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">
Since joining RUC, I have been privileged to work with a group of exceptional students to establish the BDAL-RUC Lab. Our students have achieved numerous honors, including: One Wu Yuzhang Honorary Scholarship – the highest student honor at RUC, awarded to only four Ph.D. students annually. Two JSM Student Paper Awards – a prestigious international award at the world’s largest statistics conference, marking the first time in nearly 30 years that a Ph.D. student trained entirely in China has received this honor, And three National Graduate Scholarships.
</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">
I was honored to receive the 2023 Junior Researcher Award from the Pan-Asian Committee for Statistical Research (one of only five recipients worldwide). Under my leadership, our team has also won the Huawei Spark Award three times for solving major industrial challenges, recognized by both RUC and Huawei official media. Additionally, I serve as Associate Editor for the Data Science Volume of the 3rd Edition of the Encyclopedia of China (Statistics), playing an active role in its compilation. I have led several national and industrial research projects, including funding from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) and Huawei.

Our lab is currently focused on developing theory-backed, scalable algorithms for big data, with a mission to enable the practical deployment of statistical methods across diverse industrial applications.
</p>



Highlights
======

-  <img src="https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/赛道.jpg" alt="图像" width="400"><br>
  [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/jtmVn6od7OL0Z7EPplROpQ)

-  <img src="https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/新生讲话.jpg" alt="Image" width="400"><br>
  [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/bSx9Vl2pe-LEdYZdeyDGRQ)
  
- <img src="https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/清华校友.jpg" alt="Image" width="400"><br>
  [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/OQwr1EvCYTcqG4Tm2Yl84Q)

Contact information
======
- **Address:** 710 Chondde Xi Building, Haidian, Beijing, China

- **Email:** chengmeng at ruc dot edu dot cn

Latest News
======
- (2026-01) Congratulations to Ouyang Xiaxue et al. on their paper "Sparsification Techniques for Large-scale Optimal Transport Problems" being accepted by WIREs Computational Statistics, and for its feature coverage on the renowned statistics public platform "Capital of Statistics"! [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/f_F0dMu3QbU_GCBHDJIv4A)

- (2026-01) Congratulations to Junyi Lin, Dunyao Xue, et al. on their paper "An Efficient SE(p)- Invariant Transport Metric Driven by Polar Transport Discrepancy-based Representation" being accepted by ICLR!

- (2026-01) Congratulations to Cheng Meng for receiving the "Best Collaborative Team Achievement Award" from the Huawei 2012 Labs Central Research Institute for 2025!

- (2026-01) Congratulations to Mengyu Li, Junlie Huang, Chengshuo Du, Tao Wang, and Dunyao Xue, five students featured in the 2025 RUC Statistics Student Growth Chronicle! [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ZAW9in5xx4kh3uWEm1sinA)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Mengyu Li on receiving the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation！ [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/Ziaz-dZziQIdrkS6bBu6uQ)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Tao Wang for being invited to attend the NeurIPS 2025 offline sharing session in Beijing and for presenting a poster. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/DaLrbOeDIacQ-XAorbPVGA)

- (2025-11) Cheng Meng was selected as one of the 25 representatives of Tsinghua's sports athletes to share the growth and stories of the sports team. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/vy3i4iGzefxdtZy2zuq0dQ)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Mengyu Li and co-authors on their paper “Iterative Optimal Transport for Multimodal Image Registration” being accepted by Pattern Recognition! This marks the 13th paper from our group published in an RUC A- class journal!

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Junlie Huang, Chengshuo Du, Tao Wang and Dunyao Xue for the Outstanding Poster Award at the 9th Student Forum of the China Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics(CSIAM), **with the number of awards ranking first among all participating units**! [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/krRC5HjTbBXFPWO6ZEP19Q) Honored to be featured on the official news website of Renmin University! [Link](https://news.ruc.edu.cn/1984663406100312065.html)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Zhu Jun for receiving the Doctoral Student Comprehensive Scholarship (only 4 recipients across the entire institute)!

- (2025-10) Congratulations to Junlie Huang, Jun Zhu, Tao Wang, Xiaxue Ouyang, Junyi Lin, Dunyao Xue, and Zhipeng Xiang for receiving the First-Class Graduate Academic Scholarship from the Institure of Statistics and Big Data (awarded to the top 30% of the class)!

- (2025-10) Junlie Huang, on behalf of the Stat2Spark team, participated in the 2025 Mingli College Academic Annual Conference, received the “Outstanding Research Team Award of Mingli College” presented by President Shangli Lin, and gave a presentation at the Mingli Innovation Lab Sub-Forum showcasing the team’s latest research achievements.[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/LEnJWeN-nbosP2ZigYn-pQ?scene=1&click_id=1)

- (2025-10) Congratulations to Meng Cheng for participating in the project “Building a New Collegiate System for All Students to Foster an Innovative ‘Three Crosses, Three Integrations, and Three Learnings’ Talent Development Ecosystem for the Future”, which won the Special Prize (Undergraduate Category) of the Renmin University of China Teaching Achievement Awards!

- (2025-10) Congratulations to Meng Cheng for participating in the project “Construction and Practice of a ‘Big Data Statistics+’ Innovative and Interdisciplinary International Talent Training System”, which won the First Prize (Postgraduate Category) of the Renmin University of China Teaching Achievement Awards!

- (2025-09) Congratulations to Xinlai Kang, Xiaxue Ouyang and co-authors on their paper “Hausdorff Correlation for Interval-valued Random Objects” being accepted by Statistics and Computing! This marks the 12th paper from our group published in an RUC A- class journal!

- (2025-09) Our work Gaussian Herding across Pens: An Optimal Transport Perspective on Global Gaussian Reduction for 3DGS has been accepted at NeurIPS 2025 as a spotlight!

- (2025-08) Congratulations to Xiaxue Ouyang for hosting the project "Efficient Feature Selection Driven by Adaptive Subsampling and Bio-inspired Encoding Expansion and Sparse Representation Methods," which has been approved as a 2025 Graduate Scientific Research Fund Project by the Institute of Statistics and Big Data.

- (2025-08) Congratulations to Cheng Meng and co-authors on their paper "SPOT: An Active Learning Algorithm for Efficient Deep Neural Network Training" being accepted by Big Data Mining and Analytics (IF: 13.6)!

- (2025-07) Congratulations to Mengyu Li on being selected for Tsinghua University’s “Shuimu Scholar” Program! The “Shuimu Scholar” Program is a key initiative of Tsinghua University aimed at cultivating high-level young talents. Its goal is to foster a group of outstanding young scholars who are dedicated to academic research, innovative in spirit, socially responsible, and equipped with a global vision. The program supports no more than 100 individuals each year.

- (2025-06) Cheng Meng was invited to multiple platforms to introduce the statistics major and share stories from his personal growth journey.[Link](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1gZM1zSEKs/?spm_id_from=333.337.search-card.all.click&vd_source=e6527d198967f47b463a38a48f92d812)

- (2025-06)<span style="color: rgb(165, 16, 33);"> Congratulations to Mengyu Li on receiving the "Wu Yuzhang Scholarship"! The "Wu Yuzhang Scholarship" is the highest honor awarded to students at our university. It is presented to graduating students who demonstrate all-around excellence in moral character, intellect, physical fitness, aesthetics, and labor, and who best embody the university's educational goals. Each year, only four doctoral students are selected for this prestigious award!
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/zID17NSsC8q4sK_bimLOJQ)</span>

- (2025-06) Congratulations to Mengyu Li and co-authors on their paper "Double Optimal Transport for Differential Gene Regulatory Network Inference with Unpaired Samples" being accepted by Bioinformatics in June 2025! This marks the 11th paper from our group published in a Class A- journal recognized by Renmin University of China.

- (2025-05) Congratulations to Dr. Mengyu Li (Ph.D.) and Qiannan Huang (Master’s) on successfully passing their thesis defenses! "Nothing in the world is difficult for one who is determined." May your confidence and perseverance empower you like wings of a tiger. May your idealism never fade, as you continue to pursue research that is both visionary and grounded. And may you face the greater challenges ahead with strength — fearless and untroubled.

- (2025-05) Congratulations to Junlie Huang, Xinlai Kang, Qiannan Huang, and others on their paper "Efficient Approximation of Leverage Scores in Two-dimensional Autoregressive Models with Application to Image Anomaly Detection" being accepted by JCGS! This marks the 9th paper from our group published in a Category 1B journal of the Research Institute!
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/68Qa5Yv9DNXlm035fzIhjQ)

- (2025-05) <span style="color:purple"> Cheng Meng, representing alumni ten years after graduation, was invited to attend and speak at a themed symposium hosted by Yong Qiu, the Party Secretary of Tsinghua University. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/d8KrSRIqVNIQVdvBO0yjFw) This event was also reported by the Department of Statistics and Data Science at Tsinghua University. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/utOxnb63ZurO7jPo6NpkAg)</span>

- (2025-04) Congratulations to Junyi Lin, Junlie Huang and Dunyao Xue for receiving the Travel Award and being selected for the Doctoral Forum at the 2025 Annual Conference of the Youth Statisticians Association of the National Industrial Statistics Teaching and Research Association and the 3rd International Symposium on Statistical Theory and its Applications.[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ko2HoiA6hpjWPdyo8Q8E-g) The award was  reported by a well-known academic platform "Gouxiong Hui".[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/secOUhCJQb0NYumfMlM5qQ) 

- (2025-3) Congratulations to Cheng Meng for leading students Hao Zheng, Tao Wang, Haoxian Liang, and Mengyu Li to win the Huawei "Challenge Solving" 114th Spark Award. This is the team's third time receiving this honor！[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/NXFraboslDTdyHaGAFEjFA) 
Congratulations to Haoxian Liang on Being Interviewed by Mingli College！
[My Spark Moments](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/0SyJYpWQNhOvDi2sjYaxOg)

- (2025-3) Congratulations! The paper "Efficient Variants of Wasserstein Distance in Hyperbolic Space via Space-filling Curve Projection" by Tao Li, Jun Zhu, and others has been accepted by IEEE TNNLS (IF: 10.2)! This is the third 1A-class journal publication from our group at the research institute!
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/1LUVaZowmOd9oIREQAScgA)

- (2024-12)<span style="color: rgb(0, 71, 171);"> Congratulations! Mengyu Li has been selected for the 2024 China Association for Science and Technology (CAST) Young Talent Support Program for Doctoral Students, supported by the Chinese Association for Applied Statistics (CAAS)! This is the inaugural year of the program, with approximately 3,000 students selected.
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/rRtjWDszTF0U0GonVTHsRA)

- (2024-11) Congratulations! Qiannan Huang has been awwared the JD Scholarship Nomination.
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/yr_M4j9BJM41Ku5_H25O0Q)

- (2024-11) Congratulations! Qiannan Huang has been awarded the National Scholarship for Master's Students in the 2024 Student Award Review! This is BDAL Lab's third National Scholarship, following the 2023 Doctoral National Scholarship awarded to Mengyu Li and the 2021 Master's National Scholarship awarded to Dianjun Lin.[Link](https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/黄倩楠国奖.jpg)

- (2024-10) Congratulations! Mengyu Li was awarded the Outstanding Poster Award at the 22nd Annual Conference of the China Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ffKNLItqx5vv-P0r3Yd2QQ)

- (2024-9) The BDAL-RUC homepage is officially launched! Website maintenance: Chengshuo Du, Zhipeng Xiang.

Commit message:

Add link for Junyi Lin et al.'s paper in news section
Updated the news section to include a link for Junyi Lin et al.'s paper and its feature coverage.

_pages/about.md, after:

---
permalink: /
title: ""
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Lab Group Photo
======
![Photo](../files/实验室合照.jpg)


About BDAL-RUC
======
<p style="text-align: justify;">
Hi! I’m Cheng Meng, currently a tenure-track Assistant Professor and Ph.D. advisor at the School of Statistics and Data Science, Renmin University of China (RUC). My research interests include Big Data Statistics, Optimal Transport, Artificial Intelligence, and Industrial Statistics, among others. I received my B.S. in Mathematics from Tsinghua University in 2015 and my Ph.D. in Statistics from the University of Georgia (UGA) in 2020. I was fortunate to be advised by a wonderful academic couple, Prof. Ping Ma and Prof. Wenxuan Zhong, who co-direct the Big Data Analytics Lab (BDAL) at UGA.
</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">
Since joining RUC, I have been privileged to work with a group of exceptional students to establish the BDAL-RUC Lab. Our students have achieved numerous honors, including: One Wu Yuzhang Honorary Scholarship – the highest student honor at RUC, awarded to only four Ph.D. students annually. Two JSM Student Paper Awards – a prestigious international award at the world’s largest statistics conference, marking the first time in nearly 30 years that a Ph.D. student trained entirely in China has received this honor, And three National Graduate Scholarships.
</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">
I was honored to receive the 2023 Junior Researcher Award from the Pan-Asian Committee for Statistical Research (one of only five recipients worldwide). Under my leadership, our team has also won the Huawei Spark Award three times for solving major industrial challenges, recognized by both RUC and Huawei official media. Additionally, I serve as Associate Editor for the Data Science Volume of the 3rd Edition of the Encyclopedia of China (Statistics), playing an active role in its compilation. I have led several national and industrial research projects, including funding from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) and Huawei.

Our lab is currently focused on developing theory-backed, scalable algorithms for big data, with a mission to enable the practical deployment of statistical methods across diverse industrial applications.
</p>



Highlights
======

-  <img src="https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/赛道.jpg" alt="图像" width="400"><br>
  [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/jtmVn6od7OL0Z7EPplROpQ)

-  <img src="https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/新生讲话.jpg" alt="Image" width="400"><br>
  [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/bSx9Vl2pe-LEdYZdeyDGRQ)
  
- <img src="https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/清华校友.jpg" alt="Image" width="400"><br>
  [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/OQwr1EvCYTcqG4Tm2Yl84Q)

Contact information
======
- **Address:** 710 Chondde Xi Building, Haidian, Beijing, China

- **Email:** chengmeng at ruc dot edu dot cn

Latest News
======
- (2026-01) Congratulations to Ouyang Xiaxue et al. on their paper "Sparsification Techniques for Large-scale Optimal Transport Problems" being accepted by WIREs Computational Statistics, and for its feature coverage on the renowned statistics public platform "Capital of Statistics"! [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/f_F0dMu3QbU_GCBHDJIv4A)

- (2026-01) Congratulations to Junyi Lin, Dunyao Xue, et al. on their paper "An Efficient SE(p)- Invariant Transport Metric Driven by Polar Transport Discrepancy-based Representation" being accepted by ICLR, and for its feature coverage on the renowned public platform "Synced"! [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/JMUyM_UScUCKwxmcGBlTAQ)

- (2026-01) Congratulations to Cheng Meng for receiving the "Best Collaborative Team Achievement Award" from the Huawei 2012 Labs Central Research Institute for 2025!

- (2026-01) Congratulations to Mengyu Li, Junlie Huang, Chengshuo Du, Tao Wang, and Dunyao Xue, five students featured in the 2025 RUC Statistics Student Growth Chronicle! [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ZAW9in5xx4kh3uWEm1sinA)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Mengyu Li on receiving the China Postdoctoral Science Foundation！ [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/Ziaz-dZziQIdrkS6bBu6uQ)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Tao Wang for being invited to attend the NeurIPS 2025 offline sharing session in Beijing and for presenting a poster. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/DaLrbOeDIacQ-XAorbPVGA)

- (2025-11) Cheng Meng was selected as one of the 25 representatives of Tsinghua's sports athletes to share the growth and stories of the sports team. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/vy3i4iGzefxdtZy2zuq0dQ)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Mengyu Li and co-authors on their paper “Iterative Optimal Transport for Multimodal Image Registration” being accepted by Pattern Recognition! This marks the 13th paper from our group published in an RUC A- class journal!

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Junlie Huang, Chengshuo Du, Tao Wang and Dunyao Xue for the Outstanding Poster Award at the 9th Student Forum of the China Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics(CSIAM), **with the number of awards ranking first among all participating units**! [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/krRC5HjTbBXFPWO6ZEP19Q) Honored to be featured on the official news website of Renmin University! [Link](https://news.ruc.edu.cn/1984663406100312065.html)

- (2025-11) Congratulations to Zhu Jun for receiving the Doctoral Student Comprehensive Scholarship (only 4 recipients across the entire institute)!

- (2025-10) Congratulations to Junlie Huang, Jun Zhu, Tao Wang, Xiaxue Ouyang, Junyi Lin, Dunyao Xue, and Zhipeng Xiang for receiving the First-Class Graduate Academic Scholarship from the Institure of Statistics and Big Data (awarded to the top 30% of the class)!

- (2025-10) Junlie Huang, on behalf of the Stat2Spark team, participated in the 2025 Mingli College Academic Annual Conference, received the “Outstanding Research Team Award of Mingli College” presented by President Shangli Lin, and gave a presentation at the Mingli Innovation Lab Sub-Forum showcasing the team’s latest research achievements.[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/LEnJWeN-nbosP2ZigYn-pQ?scene=1&click_id=1)

- (2025-10) Congratulations to Meng Cheng for participating in the project “Building a New Collegiate System for All Students to Foster an Innovative ‘Three Crosses, Three Integrations, and Three Learnings’ Talent Development Ecosystem for the Future”, which won the Special Prize (Undergraduate Category) of the Renmin University of China Teaching Achievement Awards!

- (2025-10) Congratulations to Meng Cheng for participating in the project “Construction and Practice of a ‘Big Data Statistics+’ Innovative and Interdisciplinary International Talent Training System”, which won the First Prize (Postgraduate Category) of the Renmin University of China Teaching Achievement Awards!

- (2025-09) Congratulations to Xinlai Kang, Xiaxue Ouyang and co-authors on their paper “Hausdorff Correlation for Interval-valued Random Objects” being accepted by Statistics and Computing! This marks the 12th paper from our group published in an RUC A- class journal!

- (2025-09) Our work Gaussian Herding across Pens: An Optimal Transport Perspective on Global Gaussian Reduction for 3DGS has been accepted at NeurIPS 2025 as a spotlight!

- (2025-08) Congratulations to Xiaxue Ouyang for hosting the project "Efficient Feature Selection Driven by Adaptive Subsampling and Bio-inspired Encoding Expansion and Sparse Representation Methods," which has been approved as a 2025 Graduate Scientific Research Fund Project by the Institute of Statistics and Big Data.

- (2025-08) Congratulations to Cheng Meng and co-authors on their paper "SPOT: An Active Learning Algorithm for Efficient Deep Neural Network Training" being accepted by Big Data Mining and Analytics (IF: 13.6)!

- (2025-07) Congratulations to Mengyu Li on being selected for Tsinghua University’s “Shuimu Scholar” Program! The “Shuimu Scholar” Program is a key initiative of Tsinghua University aimed at cultivating high-level young talents. Its goal is to foster a group of outstanding young scholars who are dedicated to academic research, innovative in spirit, socially responsible, and equipped with a global vision. The program supports no more than 100 individuals each year.

- (2025-06) Cheng Meng was invited to multiple platforms to introduce the statistics major and share stories from his personal growth journey.[Link](https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV1gZM1zSEKs/?spm_id_from=333.337.search-card.all.click&vd_source=e6527d198967f47b463a38a48f92d812)

- (2025-06)<span style="color: rgb(165, 16, 33);"> Congratulations to Mengyu Li on receiving the "Wu Yuzhang Scholarship"! The "Wu Yuzhang Scholarship" is the highest honor awarded to students at our university. It is presented to graduating students who demonstrate all-around excellence in moral character, intellect, physical fitness, aesthetics, and labor, and who best embody the university's educational goals. Each year, only four doctoral students are selected for this prestigious award!
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/zID17NSsC8q4sK_bimLOJQ)</span>

- (2025-06) Congratulations to Mengyu Li and co-authors on their paper "Double Optimal Transport for Differential Gene Regulatory Network Inference with Unpaired Samples" being accepted by Bioinformatics in June 2025! This marks the 11th paper from our group published in a Class A- journal recognized by Renmin University of China.

- (2025-05) Congratulations to Dr. Mengyu Li (Ph.D.) and Qiannan Huang (Master’s) on successfully passing their thesis defenses! "Nothing in the world is difficult for one who is determined." May your confidence and perseverance empower you like wings of a tiger. May your idealism never fade, as you continue to pursue research that is both visionary and grounded. And may you face the greater challenges ahead with strength — fearless and untroubled.

- (2025-05) Congratulations to Junlie Huang, Xinlai Kang, Qiannan Huang, and others on their paper "Efficient Approximation of Leverage Scores in Two-dimensional Autoregressive Models with Application to Image Anomaly Detection" being accepted by JCGS! This marks the 9th paper from our group published in a Category 1B journal of the Research Institute!
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/68Qa5Yv9DNXlm035fzIhjQ)

- (2025-05) <span style="color:purple"> Cheng Meng, representing alumni ten years after graduation, was invited to attend and speak at a themed symposium hosted by Yong Qiu, the Party Secretary of Tsinghua University. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/d8KrSRIqVNIQVdvBO0yjFw) This event was also reported by the Department of Statistics and Data Science at Tsinghua University. [Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/utOxnb63ZurO7jPo6NpkAg)</span>

- (2025-04) Congratulations to Junyi Lin, Junlie Huang and Dunyao Xue for receiving the Travel Award and being selected for the Doctoral Forum at the 2025 Annual Conference of the Youth Statisticians Association of the National Industrial Statistics Teaching and Research Association and the 3rd International Symposium on Statistical Theory and its Applications.[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ko2HoiA6hpjWPdyo8Q8E-g) The award was  reported by a well-known academic platform "Gouxiong Hui".[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/secOUhCJQb0NYumfMlM5qQ) 

- (2025-3) Congratulations to Cheng Meng for leading students Hao Zheng, Tao Wang, Haoxian Liang, and Mengyu Li to win the Huawei "Challenge Solving" 114th Spark Award. This is the team's third time receiving this honor！[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/NXFraboslDTdyHaGAFEjFA) 
Congratulations to Haoxian Liang on Being Interviewed by Mingli College！
[My Spark Moments](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/0SyJYpWQNhOvDi2sjYaxOg)

- (2025-3) Congratulations! The paper "Efficient Variants of Wasserstein Distance in Hyperbolic Space via Space-filling Curve Projection" by Tao Li, Jun Zhu, and others has been accepted by IEEE TNNLS (IF: 10.2)! This is the third 1A-class journal publication from our group at the research institute!
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/1LUVaZowmOd9oIREQAScgA)

- (2024-12)<span style="color: rgb(0, 71, 171);"> Congratulations! Mengyu Li has been selected for the 2024 China Association for Science and Technology (CAST) Young Talent Support Program for Doctoral Students, supported by the Chinese Association for Applied Statistics (CAAS)! This is the inaugural year of the program, with approximately 3,000 students selected.
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/rRtjWDszTF0U0GonVTHsRA)

- (2024-11) Congratulations! Qiannan Huang has been awwared the JD Scholarship Nomination.
[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/yr_M4j9BJM41Ku5_H25O0Q)

- (2024-11) Congratulations! Qiannan Huang has been awarded the National Scholarship for Master's Students in the 2024 Student Award Review! This is BDAL Lab's third National Scholarship, following the 2023 Doctoral National Scholarship awarded to Mengyu Li and the 2021 Master's National Scholarship awarded to Dianjun Lin.[Link](https://cheng-bdal.github.io//images/黄倩楠国奖.jpg)

- (2024-10) Congratulations! Mengyu Li was awarded the Outstanding Poster Award at the 22nd Annual Conference of the China Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.[Link](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/ffKNLItqx5vv-P0r3Yd2QQ)

- (2024-9) The BDAL-RUC homepage is officially launched! Website maintenance: Chengshuo Du, Zhipeng Xiang.
